Bruno A. Barreiro was first elected into public office in 1992 to serve in the Florida House of Representatives representing District 107.  While serving in the Florida House of Representatives, he chaired the Tourism Committee.  On June 2, 1998, Bruno A. Barreiro was elected to serve as Miami-Dade County Commissioner representing District 5. Since then, he has been re-elected for subsequent terms to represent constituents in portions of the Cities of Miami and Miami Beach, as well as the communities of Little Havana, Downtown, and South Beach.

Currently, Commissioner Barreiro serves as the Vice-Chair of the Transportation and Aviation Committee.  On behalf of Miami Dade County he sits on the Downtown Development Authority and the South Florida Regional Transportation Authority, where he is currently the chair.  On November 28, 2006, Barreiro was selected by his colleagues to serve as Chairman of the Miami-Dade Board of County Commissioners for two years.  As Chairman, Barreiro presided over Miami-Dade’s Legislative Branch and oversaw the Office of Protocol.

Barreiro has been recognized by many local, state, and federal organizations.  He is also an active participant as member of the following organizations: Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce; Miami Beach Chamber of Commerce; Elephant Forum; Miami Project to Cure Paralysis; National Rifle Association of America; Sierra Club; Dade Heritage Trust; UNIDAD; United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and the Florida Association of Licensed Investigators.

In 1999, he founded the Barreiro Foundation, a non for profit organization with the goal to provide assistance to the underprivileged youth and elderly. 

Barreiro is an alumnus of Christopher Columbus High School and attended the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida.   He is the president of BABJ Investment Corporation, Marketing Vice President of Fatima Home Care and is associated with IUSA Group.

Barreiro is the son of Cuban immigrant parents and was born in Clearwater, Florida in December 1965.  He and his wife Zoraida are the proud parents of Bianca and Bruno III.