<p>Esteban L. Bovo, Jr. was elected to the Miami Dade County Board of Commissioners in 2011.  Commissioner Bovo represents District 13 which includes the vibrant and diverse communities of Hialeah, Miami Lakes, Palm Springs North, and several other unincorporated neighborhoods.</p>

<p>Commissioner Bovo began his career in public service when he was appointed to fill a midterm vacancy on the Hialeah City Council in 1998. Subsequently re-elected twice, Commissioner Bovo was elected to serve as the council’s president, where he earned the respect and admiration of his colleagues and developed a reputation as a consensus builder. One of Commissioner Bovo’s enduring legislative legacies as a councilman was an ordinance aimed at keeping sexual predators away from children.</p>

<p>In November 2008, Commissioner Bovo was elected to the Florida Legislature representing House District 110, and was re-elected without opposition in 2010. Throughout the 2009 legislative session, then Representative Bovo, sponsored a resolution designating the month of May as "A Safe Haven for Newborns Month," in recognition of the Gloria M. Silveiro Foundation. Additionally, he designated April 17, 2009 as "Bay of Pigs Memorial Day" in collaboration with the 2506 Assault Brigade Museum and Library where historic Cuban counter-revolutionary memorabilia are preserved.</p>

<p>In addition to his efforts to recognize the contributions of great Floridians, Representative Bovo focused his legislative agenda on public safety by sponsoring the Ashley Nicole Valdes Act which requires hit and run offenders to remain behind bars until first appearance. Representative Bovo’s hard earned reputation as a consensus builder was recognized by his peers when he was elected Chairman of the legislature’s Hispanic Caucus, and again when he was appointed Chairman of the House Committee on Business Regulation. As committee chair, Representative Bovo fought to free private industry from the shackles of burdensome business regulations.</p>

<p>On the Miami-Dade County Commission, Commissioner Bovo currently serves as Chairman of the Board’s Transportation and Mobility Committee, and is a member of the Unincorporated Municipal Services Committee and the Strategic Planning and Government Operations Committee.  As the past chairman of the Board’s Finance Committee, Commissioner Bovo earned a reputation as a fiscal hawk and has championed various legislative proposals designed to make county government more transparent and efficient.  Most importantly, Commissioner Bovo enjoys building consensus while tackling complicated policy issues.  As a testament to his leadership, Commissioner Bovo was unanimously elected to a two year term as the Board’s vice-chair commencing January 1, 2015.</p>

<p>Esteban L. Bovo, Jr. was born on June 12, 1962 in Queens, New York to Marilyn and Esteban Bovo-Carás. As a member of Brigade 2506, a US supported military unit that saw combat during the Bay of Pigs invasion, Commissioner Bovo’s father instilled in him a sense of duty, justice and fair play. Commissioner Bovo has been a proud resident of Miami-Dade County for over 45 years and holds a Bachelor's degree in Political Science from Florida International University. He is married to Viviana and has five children; Oscar, Bianca, Esteban, Sofia, and Alessandro.</p>